`wpantund` Installation Guide
=============================

This document describes the process of building and installing
`wpantund` on both Ubuntu and OS X. Installation on other platforms
may be possible, but are left as an excercise for the reader. This
document assumes that you are at least casually familiar with
[Autoconf][1]. It also assumes that you have already gotten a copy of
the wpantund sources, extracted them, and are wondering what to do
next.

[1]: http://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/autoconf.html



Installing `wpantund` on Ubuntu
-------------------------------

### 1. Install Dependencies ###

Open up a terminal and perform the following commands:

	sudo apt-get update

	# Install runtine-dependent packages (libreadline is optional)
	sudo apt-get install dbus libreadline

	# Install build-dependent packages (libreadline-dev is optional)
	sudo apt-get install gcc g++ libdbus-1-dev libboost-dev libreadline-dev

### 2. Configure and build the project ###

#### 2.1. Running the bootstrap script  ####

Make sure that your repository is at `origin/master`.

    git checkout origin/master

Then *bootstrap* the project by doing the following:

    sudo apt-get install libtool autoconf autoconf-archive
    ./bootstrap.sh

#### 2.2. Running the configure script  ####

If the `configure` script is present, run it and then start the make
process:

    ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc
    make

This may take a while. You can speed up the process by adding the
argument `-j4` to the call to `make`, substituting the number `4` with
the number of processor cores you have on your machine. This greatly
improves the speed of builds.

Also, if additional debugging information is required or helpful from
`wpantund`, add the argument `--enable-debug` to the `./configure`
line above.

### 3. Install `wpantund` ###

Once the build above is complete, execute the following command:

    sudo make install

This will install `wpantund` onto your computer.

Configuring and Using `wpantund`
-------------------------------

### 1. Configuring `wpantund` ###

Now that you have `wpantund` installed, you will need to edit the
configuration file to tell the daemon how to communicate with the NCP.
You do this by editing the `wpantund.conf` file, which (if you
followed the directions above) should now be at `/etc/wpantund.conf`.

This file is, by default, filled only with commentsâ€”which describe
all of the important configuration options that you might need to set
in order to make wpantund usable. Read them over and then uncomment
and update the appropriate configuration properties.

Alternatively, you can specify any needed properties on the command
line when invoking `wpantund`. At a minimum, at least `NCPSocketName`
needs to be specified, which describes how `wpantund` is supposed to
talk to the NCP.

Refer to the authorative documentation in `/etc/wpantund.conf` or
`./src/wpantund/wpantund.conf` for more information.

### 2. Start wpantund ###

To connect to an NCP on the serial port `/dev/ttyUSB0`, type the
following into terminal:

    sudo /usr/local/sbin/wpantund -o NCPSocketName /dev/ttyUSB0

To start wpan on more than one interface, you can specify the WPAN
interface name. For example, to set `wpan0` network interface on
`/dev/ttyUSB0` USB interface, and `wpan1` on `/dev/ttyUSB1`, run:

    sudo /usr/local/sbin/wpantund -o NCPSocketName /dev/ttyUSB0 -o WPANInterfaceName wpan0

and

    sudo /usr/local/sbin/wpantund -o NCPSocketName /dev/ttyUSB1 -o WPANInterfaceName wpan1

Note that, unless you are running as root, you *must* use `sudo` when
invoking `wpantund` directly.

On an embedded device, you would add the appropriate scripts or
configuration files that would cause `wpantund` to be started at boot.
Doing so should be pretty straightforward.

### 3. Using `wpanctl` ###

Now that you have `wpantund` running, you can now issue commands to
the daemon using `wpanctl` from another window: (Again, unless you are
running as root, you *must* use `sudo`)

    $ sudo /usr/local/bin/wpanctl
    wpanctl:wpan0> leave
    Leaving current WPAN. . .
    wpanctl:wpan0> setprop NetworkKey --data 000102030405060708090a0b0c0d0e0f
    wpanctl:wpan0> form "MyCoolNetwork" -c 26
    Forming WPAN "MyCoolNetwork" as node type 2
    Successfully formed!
    wpanctl:wpan0> permit-join 3600 22
    Permitting Joining on the current WPAN for 3600 seconds, commissioning traffic on TCP/UDP port 22. . .
    wpanctl:wpan0> status
    wpan0 => [
        "AssociationState" => "joined"
        "NetworkName" => "MyCoolNetwork"
        "XPanId" => 0xD6D8A04025AB3B0C
        "PanId" => 0xE3C3
        "Channel" => 26
        "Prefix" => [FDD6D8A040250000]
        "NCPVersion" => "OpenThread/1.0d26-25-gb684c7f; DEBUG; May 9 2016 18:22:04"
        "HWAddr" => [18B430000003F202]
    ]
    wpanctl:wpan0>
